In the last lecture we introduced the concept of a model factory so model factory is supposed to generate
model with random data inside it so is very useful for tests.
For example where we don't really care about the content of those models we just need to generate a
lot of them.
And in this case we use that to generate for comments with the random content.
But we only occurred to said that that post idea of this randomly generated models.
So as you remember this is how the model factory looks like and you create this model factories using
larval artisan command.
And this one is for comments.
And I was also talking about creating a model factory for blog posts.
As you remember we have created this create dummy blog post method.
So let's go into it.
You can by the way you can go into a method if you will press out and click the name of the method.
So let's do that now.
And inside this method we explicitly create a new blog post instance set its content.
So this means we actually care that the title is set to this specific one and also the content is set
to this specific one.
So let's see how we can achieve that that we can have a generic model factory.
So it allows us to generate random data but also allows us to sometimes specify automatically what content
we exactly would like inside this model.
So what attributes we would like to set to specific ones.
So this might seem a little bit confusing right now.
So the example is always best to see this with your own eyes.
So let's generate a new model factory using BHP artisan make factory and we'll call it blog post factory
and specify that the model should be blog post.
Now let's go to the database factories folder and open our new blog post factory.
So the same as with the common factory inside it will defined what should be the values for the attributes
of this model.
So since the blog post has title will generate a new title using faker.
And now let's see what we can use for that so inside the faker documentation you can see a lot of useful
a lot of useful generators that you can use.
One of them could be sentence
so let's use sentence.
You can see that it accepts parameters actually.
So for example the first parameter you can specify to tell it how many words you would like to generate.
And you can see an example result on the right but let's just use the default one.
So this would be six by default but well maybe we can even change that to 10.
Next we have the content.
So a blog post is usually a little bit longer than the type titles so let's see what we can use for
generating a longer text.
So for example there is that paragraph method and you can specify how many sentences do you want.
So the default is free or you can have paragraphs.
So this will generate couple of paragraphs.
And by default it will return them as an array.
So if you had specified the first parameter to be let's say free as it is by default then you will get
them array of free paragraphs of free strings basically.
So we can use the second parameter to just let it return us.
The whole text because we do not care about this array we do not want to process it later.
We just want a text returned so let's use that content paragraphs
let's say we would like five and now we'll specify the second parameter as true because we want this
to be returned as text.
So let's make sure I've typed this method correctly.
Yes I did.
OK.
Now it's time to verify if that works.
So let's do that using Tinker and now let's see.
We use model factory by calling the factory function specifying the class.
So this would be up blog post class
and now we can easily call create
so we can see that's the result of it.
So we've got a pretty nice random title and couple of paragraphs of text.
So let's see if we have that inside the database yes we do.
Now I've said that for example in this case in our test we are verifying if the title is exactly new
title and content is content of the blog post
so now model factories also have things called state so by default they will try to generate random
values the way you define them using their defined method.
But sometimes if you would like some values to be specific you can also add so-called state.
So let's do that so we call this method exactly the same as we have called define then you can just
return an array or define a closure if you would like to modify for example how you would like to generate
some values
and actually hear the second parameter
is the name of this state.
So maybe let's call it using some more descriptive name maybe new post or new title because this is
how we actually call that inside a test.
OK now as usual we will return an array and here you can overwrite any of the parameters that you would
like to be different than generated here so if we would like the title to be new title we can override
it here
and we will do the same with content
so content would be the same as in the test.
And now we have a blog post which can be generated using a model factory.
We have a state.
So now let's see how we can use that so we can either just replace the calls to create a dummy blog
post inside all of this tests so let's see when it is used.
It's another useful feature of Visual Studio code.
Find all references so when you click it you can see all the places where this has been called
so instead of just removing this method and using the factory we can instead just modify this method
so we will generate new blog posts using the model factory but instead of getting this random values
we'll use state
and as we define it.
One state called New title here we can be pretty certain that we will actually get our new model with
the title bank exactly new title and content blend bank.
Exactly what we have defined here.
So maybe it's not the best example of states because it's mostly useful if you'd like to modify only
a couple of values so let's say that the blog post will have 10 fields or 10 model attributes but you
only want to modify two of them and then get the defaults that are out or generated here using faker.
So for example if I would like only different specific title I would remove this content and then content
would be outer generated using faker and only the title will always be new title if I will use this
model factory with the state name defined as a second parameter.
But since we want also the content let's live it like it is.
OK so we are calling factory we are specifying what state do we want.
And finally we call create.
So now we can comment that out
and let's verify if that works.
So let's clear the term now.
Now let's go to the terminal first.
Quit Tinker by pressing control see and then let's run teach.
You need to see if our tests are still passing which would mean that we get this blog post properly
generated and voila everything works.
And as we expected.
And this means that this factory is actually generating a new blog post with this exact state.
Now let's take a moment to actually try to better understand the model factory state by seeing it in
action.
So let's run peach bee artisan thinker inside the terminal and now as I've said if we use this factory
function and specify a state as new title this values is basically what should we what each should overwrite
the defaults generated inside the defined method.
So let's see how that works.
So we have the factory up blog post class
and us exactly in the test.
We have to specify the state.
So this would be new title and finally call create so you can see that we have title as new title and
content is the content of the blog post exactly as we have specified here inside our specific state
but as I've said this only overrides the properties that are specified.
If you want specify content for example we should have the content how to generate it as we did inside
there.
Define using this paragraphs faker method so let's save this changes and see if this is how it actually
works.
So we can just copy this line pasted inside the Tinker and let's see what we get.
Well actually it seems we have to restart Tinker so let's restarted and paste again because probably
it has to just pick up the changes that we made to the file so it probably just loaded this file file
already and didn't pick up the changes.
So now let's try again.
So we have removed the content from the state and we are running it again expecting this to generate
a new blog post model with the new title.
State and this is what we expected.
So since we have overridden the title we see that we have new title here and the content is out of generated
from the define method of the model factory with the paragraphs faker method.
So minded that when when I'm talking about the state this only relates to how the model factory should
work.
It's not a state of the actual blog post model.
It doesn't it's not related at all.
So models do not have this status in this sense that I am showing you right now it is just what should
be put into the attributes of a model.
As simple as that.
So that's the only place where this state matters is when you actually call this factory method.
You are just telling it how it should put or feel the properties of a model and then you forget about
state.
So it's it only applies to model factor it doesn't apply to the model.
So basically that would be it for this lecture and let's continue with the next one.